A Seminar Report
on
IOT Based Prognostics and Systems Health Management
for Industrial Applications
by
Krushna Sanjay Sharma
Roll No:305265
Under the guidance of
Prof.N.S.Pharande
Departnent of Computer engineering
Sinhgad College of Engineering, Pune-41
Accredited by NAAC with “A” grade
Savitribai Phule Pune University
2016-2017
Sinhgad Technical Education Society,
Department of Computer Engineering
Sinhgad College of Engineering,Pune-41
Date:
CERTIFICATE
This is to certify that Mr. Krushna Sanjay Sharma has successfully completed his semi-
nar work titled “IoT BASED PROGNOSTICS AND SYSTEMS HEALTH MANAGE-
MENT” at Department of Computer Engineering, SCOE, Pune for the partial fulfillment
of the Bachelor Degree of Computer Engineering , Savitribai Phule Pune University, in
semester-II, academic Year 2016-2017.
Prof. N.S. Pharande Prof. M.P. Wankhade
Internal Guide Head of Department
Department of Computer Engineering
Dr. S.D. Lokhande
Principal
Sinhgad College of Engineering
Abstract
Prognostics and systems health management (PHM) is an enabling discipline that uses sen-
sors to assess the health of systems, diagnoses anomalous behavior, and predicts the re-
maining useful performance over the life of the asset. The advent of the Internet of Things
(IoT) enables PHM to be applied to all types of assets across all sectors, thereby creating a
paradigm shift that is opening up significant new business opportunities. This paper intro-
duces the concepts of PHM and discusses the opportunities provided by the IoT. Develop-
ments are illustrated with examples of innovations from manufacturing, consumer products,
and infrastructure. From this review, a number of challenges that result from the rapid adop-
tion of IoT-based PHM are identified. These include appropriate analytics, security, IoT
platforms, sensor energy harvesting, IoT business models, and licensing approaches.
3
Acknowledgment
Working on this seminar is one of the wonderful and existing experiences in my life. This
seminar not only bears the testimony of existing efforts but also reflects the cooperation,
help and guidance, which I received time to time. It is obvious but that we acknowledge
them for their help without which the seminar would never have been completed.
I would like to express my deep gratitude to Prof. N.S. Pharande for her profound guid-
ance and support which helped me understanding the nuances of the seminar work. I am
thankful to her for her timely suggestions which helped me a lot in completion of this report.
My heart felt thankful for our Head of Department Prof. M.P. Wankhade who has been a
consistent motivator throughout the project.
I would also like to thank the teaching and non teaching staff who have helped me all time
in one way or the other.
Lastly, and the most important, I extend my thanking to my parents and friends who have
constantly guided and motivated me to accomplish the task successfully.
Signature
Krushna Sanjay Sharma
4
List of Tables
2.1 Comparison Of Prognostics Techniques . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
5
List of Figures
3.1 Dimensions Of PHM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
3.2 PoF-Based Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.3 Fusion PHM Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
3.4 Technology stack for supporting IoT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
3.5 Conceptual Representation of Smart Ships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
6
Acronyms
PHM Prognostics and Health Management
IoT Internet of Things
MEMS Micro Electronic Mechanical Systems
RFID Radio Frequency Identification
CBM Condition-Based Maintenance
RUL Remaining Useful Life
PoF Physics of Failure
FMMEA
Failure Modes, Mechanisms, and Effects Anal-
ysis
TTF Time to Failure
MRO Maintenance, Repair and Operations
IVHM Integrated Vehicle Health Management
7
Contents
Abstract 3
Acknowledgement 4
Acknowledgment 4
List of Tables 5
List of Figures 6
Acronyms 7
1 Introduction 1
1.1 Motivation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
1.2 Evoloution/Timelline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
1.3 Organization of Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
2 Literature Review 6
2.1 Fundamentals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2.2 Related Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2.3 Conclusion of Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3 Methodology 9
3.1 Overview of Prognostics ans systems health managemnt (PHM) . . . . . . 9
3.2 PHM Methodologies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.2.1 Physics-Of-Failure (PoF) Approaches . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.2.2 Data-Driven Approaches . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
3.2.3 Fusion (PoF-Based/Data-Driven Hybrid) Approaches . . . . . . . . 13
3.3 Technology Stack For IoT-Based PHM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
3.4 IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
3.5 Mathematical Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
4 Discussion of Results 17
5 Conclusion and Future work 18
References 20
8
Chapter 1
Introduction
Reliability is the ability of an asset to perform under expected performance requirements for
a specified period of time in field use conditions. Customers expect their purchases to be
reliable, and reliability influences their willingness to pay. Manufacturers need to balance
customer expectations and profit expectations by designing for reliability and quality goals.
The direct costs and reputation loss caused by poor asset reliability can significantly impact
organizational performance. The ability to predict an asset’s reliability is therefore a core
capaility.
This organizational capability is enabled by appropriate prognostics and systems health
management (PHM) practices. PHP originates the idea that the health of assets can be
determined and the reliability (and remaining useful performance over the life of the asset)
predicted with the aid of in situ sensing. PHM methodologies are based on several key
elements in which sensors provide the capability of monitoring failure precursors and envi-
ronmental loading conditions.
These sensors are used to collect data about various attributes such as temperature, pressure,
vibration, etc. about an asset. Sensors hard-wired to industrial control systems aid in assess-
ing operational performance. However, developments in the IOT offer a new paradigm in
which sensor data is streamed wirelessly from ”things”, which may be systems, sub-systems,
or assets, to remote servers in the cloud. In this way, all data relevant to health estimation
is available for prognostics and health monitoring.This availability (sharing) of information
across platforms and assets provides a complete operating picture of different systems and
enables flexibility to assess and manage new and previously unknown risks.
1
1.1 Motivation
Manufacturers need to manage health of industrial assets (machines and products) in order to
ensure delivery of products which are reliable and fulfill some quality standards. Most of the
industries use hard-wired sensors with control systems and then technicians are supposed to
collect data from each system. However, this method of data collection becomes tedious as
the number of systems keep growing. IOT is a platform which enables real-time monitoring
of such systems and stores data over some cloud based server. This would greatly reduce
the time and efforts required for system health monitoring and prognostics.
1.2 Evoloution/Timelline
The Internet of things (stylised Internet of Things or IoT) is the internetworking of physical
devices, vehicles (also referred to as ”connected devices” and ”smart devices”), buildings,
and other itemsembedded with electronics, software, sensors, actuators, and network con-
nectivity that enable these objects to collect and exchange data.In 2013 the Global Standards
Initiative on Internet of Things (IoT-GSI) defined the IoT as ”the infrastructure of the infor-
mation society.” The IoT allows objects to be sensed and/or controlled remotely across exist-
ing network infrastructure,creating opportunities for more direct integration of the physical
world into computer-based systems, and resulting in improved efficiency, accuracy and eco-
nomic benefit in addition to reduced human intervention.
The concept of the Internet of things became popular in 1999, through the Auto-ID Center
at MIT and related market-analysis publications.Radio-frequency identification (RFID) was
seen by Kevin Ashton (one of the founders of the original Auto-ID Center) as a prerequisite
for the Internet of things at that point. Ashton prefers the phrase ”Internet for Things.” If all
objects and people in daily life were equipped with identifiers, computers could manage and
inventory them.Besides using RFID, the tagging of things may be achieved through such
technologies as near field communication, barcodes, QR codes and digital watermarking.
As of 2016, the vision of the Internet of things has evolved due to a convergence of mul-
tiple technologies, including ubiquitous wireless communication, real-time analytics, ma-
chine learning, commodity sensors, and embedded systems. This means that the traditional
fields of embedded systems, wireless sensor networks, control systems, automation (includ-
ing home and building automation), and others all contribute to enabling the Internet of
things(IoT).
IoT frameworks might help support the interaction between ”things” and allow for more
2
complex structures like distributed computing and the development of distributed applica-
tions. Currently, some IoT frameworks seem to focus on real time data logging solutions
like Jasper Technologies, Inc. and Xively (formerly Cosm and before that Pachube), offering
some basis to work with many ”things” and have them interact. Future developments might
lead to specific software-development environments to create the software to work with the
hardware used in the Internet of things. Companies are developing technology platforms
to provide this type of functionality for the Internet of things. Newer platforms are be-
ing developed, which add more intelligence. Foremost, IBM has announced cognitive IoT,
which combines traditional IoT with machine intelligence and learning, contextual informa-
tion, industry-specific models and even natural language processing. The XMPP Standards
Foundation (XSF) is creating such a framework in a fully open standard that is neither tied
to any company nor connected to any cloud services. This XMPP initiative is called Chatty
Things. XMPP provides a set of needed building blocks and a proven distributed solution
that can scale with high security levels.
1. REST is a scalable architecture that allows things to communicate over Hypertext
Transfer Protocol and is easily adopted for IoT applications to provide communication
from a thing to a central web server.
2. MQTT is a publish-subscribe architecture on top of TCP/IP which allows bi-directional
communication between a thing and a MQTT broker.
3. Short-range wireless
• Bluetooth low energy (BLE) Specification providing a low power variant to
classic Bluetooth with a comparable communication range.
• Light-Fidelity (Li-Fi) Wireless communication technology similar to the Wi-Fi
standard, but using visible light communication for increased bandwidth.
• Near-field communication (NFC) Communication protocols enabling two elec-
tronic devices to communicate within a 4 cm range.
• QR codes and barcodes Machine-readable optical tags that store information
about the item to which they are attached.
3
• Radio-frequency identification (RFID) Technology using electromagnetic fields
to read data stored in tags embedded in other items.
• Thread Network protocol based on the IEEE 802.15.4 standard, similar to Zig-
Bee, providing IPv6 addressing.
• Wi-Fi Widely used technology for local area networking based on the IEEE
802.11 standard, where devices may communicate through a shared access point.
• Wi-Fi Direct Variant of the Wi-Fi standard for peer-to-peer communication,
eliminating the need for an access point.
• Z-Wave Communication protocol providing short-range, low-latency data trans-
fer at rates and power consumption lower than Wi-Fi. Used primarily for home
automation.
• ZigBee Communication protocols for personal area networking based on the
IEEE 802.15.4 standard, providing low power consumption, low data rate, low
cost, and high throughput.
4. Medium-range wireless
• HaLow Variant of the Wi-Fi standard providing extended range for low-power
communication at a lower data rate.
• LTE-Advanced High-speed communication specification for mobile networks.
Provides enhancements to the LTE standard with extended coverage, higher through-
put, and lower latency.
5. Long-range wireless
• Low-power wide-area networking (LPWAN) Wireless networks designed to
allow long-range communication at a low data rate, reducing power and cost for
transmission.
4
• Very small aperture terminal (VSAT) Satellite communication technology us-
ing small dish antennas for narrowband and broadband data.
6. Wired
• Ethernet General purpose networking standard using twisted pair and fiber optic
links in conjunction with hubs or switches.
• Multimedia over Coax Alliance (MoCA) Specification enabling whole-home
distribution of high definition video and content over existing coaxial cabling.
• Power-line communication (PLC) Communication technology using electrical
wiring to carry power and data. Specifications such as HomePlug utilize PLC for
networking IoT devices.
1.3 Organization of Report
Chapter 01: Describes an overview of the Internet of things and basics of PHM along with
its preliminary requirement. It explains motivation behind the research and Evolution that
states how IOT has evolved till date along with similar technologies.
Chapter 02: Describes different techniques used for PHM and also clarifies how IOT
based prognostics is superior to other techniques.
Chapter 03: Describes the Methodology of given topic, i.e. new Approach used in order to
solve the challenge.It also gives description about the method, Performance parameters,
System Architecture and way of implementation for IOT based prognostic techniques.
Chapter 04: States the comparison of performance measure of Internet of things for PHM.
Chapter 05: States the conclusion for the survey and also depicts areas in which future
works related to the field of Internet of things for PHM is expected.
5
Chapter 2
Literature Review
2.1 Fundamentals
PHM helps in monitoring health of systems and estimating their Remaining Useful Life
(RUL). Different techniques for implementing PHM include:
1. Evidence Based Prognostics / Condition Based monitoring
2. Fault Analysis for PHM
3. IOT Based PHM
2.2 Related Work
Condition-based maintenance (CBM) is a maintenance program that recommends mainte-
nance decisions based on the information collected through condition monitoring. It consists
of three main steps: data acquisition, data processing and maintenance decision-making.
Diagnostics and prognostics are two important aspects of a CBM program. Research in the
CBM area grows rapidly.[2]
Fault (Physics of failure) based technique: This method can help online reliability evalua-
tion under real environmental condition by the identification of potential failure mechanism
and failure position for devices, products and systems, so as to establish the foundation of
reliability assessment for new material, new structure and new product. Under the analysis
of failure mechanism for electronic product, the FMMEA (Failure Modes, Mechanisms and
Effects Analysis) is used to get the failure mode, mechanism and failure physics model for
the potential fault site. Based on the simulation model derived from the parameters of prod-
uct material, structure, processing technology and the analysis of stress, the life distribution
for the potential fault can be got through damage analysis with physics-of-failure model.
The PHM information derived can be used to maintain, prognostic and decision-making for
electronic product to reduce the life cycle cost and enhance the availability.[3]
6
Table 2.1: Comparison Of Prognostics Techniques
7
2.3 Conclusion of Survey
IOT Based Prognostics is superior to other methods as it provides real time data analysis
and provides support for software solutions to be implemented for system load balancing.
Condition Based Monitoring(CBM) can be incorporated with IoT Based PHM as CBM
is used to collect data from sensors describing various attributes and performance measures
of the system. IoT platform opens up scope of interconnecting various systems monitored
by CBM and provide an visual description of performance of various systems and estimate
their RUL.
8
Chapter 3
Methodology
3.1 Overview of Prognostics ans systems health managemnt (PHM)
PHM can be an effective solution for detecting anomalies and faults, diagnosing failures,
predicting residual (remaining) lifetimes, and estimating the reliability of assets. Some ex-
amples of successful applications of PHM include electronics, rotating machinery, and linear
assets such as transport, water, and electrical distribution. PHM consists of four dimensions:
sensing, diagnosis, prognosis, and management as shown in Figure 3.1 below.
Figure 3.1: Dimensions Of PHM [04]
9
Sensing enables anomaly detectability by selecting and appropriately locating sensors that
provide the capability to collect a history of time-dependent degradation of materials or en-
vironmental stresses. Anomalies do not necessarily indicate a failure. Changes in operating
conditions, as well as asset performance degradation, can influence data to show anomalous
behavior. However, even this type of anomaly information is valuable to asset management.
Diagnosis extracts fault-related information from the sensor signals caused by anomalies in
asset health. Anomalies may result from material degradation, as well as changes in use
conditions. Diagnosis relates the signal anomalies to a failure mode(s), and identifies the
quantity of damage that has occurred as a health indicator. The results from this anomaly
diagnosis can provide advanced warnings of failure, referred to as failure precursors.
PHM integrates component lifetime estimation and reliability prediction, enabling the reli-
ability of an asset to be evaluated and providing the opportunity to manage the asset risk.
A successful PHM execution relies on the selection of appropriate prognostic approaches.
Currently, there are many prognostic techniques, and their usage must be tuned for each ap-
plication. Prognostic methods can be classified by the following three approaches: physics-
of-failure (PoF)- based, data-driven, and fusion.[04]
10
3.2 PHM Methodologies
3.2.1 Physics-Of-Failure (PoF) Approaches
A PoF approach uses knowledge of how things degrade and fail. This knowledge is based
on physical laws linked with a mathematical model. As shown in Fig.3.2, the PoF approach
requires understanding of the process by which physical, electrical, chemical, and mechan-
ical stresses act on materials to induce failure. The procedure of conducting PHM using a
PoF approach can be summarized in the following five steps :
Step 1: Identify the critical failure mechanisms and failure sites using failure modes, mech-
anisms, and effects analysis (FMMEA);
Step 2: Monitor the life-cycle loads that may lead to performance or physical degradation
and the associated asset responses;
Step 3: Extract features from the variables that change in response to deterioration associ-
ated with the failure mechanisms identified at Step 1;
Step 4: Assess damage and calculate remaining life using the PoF models of the failure
mechanisms; and,
Step 5: Estimate uncertainty and predict the time-to-failure (TTF) as a distribution. [05]
Figure 3.2: PoF-Based Approach [05]
11
3.2.2 Data-Driven Approaches
Data-driven approaches use data analytics and machine learning to determine anomalies and
make predictions about the reliability of assets based on internal and/or external covariates
(also called endogenous and exogenous covariates). Internal covariates (e.g., temperature,
vibration) are measured by sensors on the asset and are only present when the asset is operat-
ing. External covariates (e.g., weather data) are present whether or not the asset is operating.
The data-driven approach analyzes asset performance data based on a training database of
internal and/or external covariates. This may be implemented either by obtaining data under
healthy conditions or from data-mining techniques.
Compared to PoF approaches, data-driven approaches do not necessarily need asset-specific
information. Data-driven approaches can learn the behavior of the asset based on the data
collected, and can be used to analyze intermittent faults by detecting changes in asset fea-
tures. The approaches can also be used in complex assets with multiple and potentially
competing failure modes as long as the asset exhibits repeatable behavior. In other words,
the strength of data-driven approaches is their ability to transform high-dimensional noisy
data into lower-dimensional information for diagnostic and prognostic decisions. However,
data-driven approaches have some limitations, the main drawback being a reliance on his-
torical data on the failure modes or mechanisms the analyst seeks to detect. This can be an
issue especially when the consequence of failure is high.
12
3.2.3 Fusion (PoF-Based/Data-Driven Hybrid) Approaches
The fusion approach shown in Fig. 4 combines the advantages from the PoF-based and
data-driven approaches to allow better RUL prediction capability. This approach reduces
the reliance on historical datasets and addresses the issue of previously unseen failure modes.
In fusion PHM, the first step is to determine which variables to monitor. The variables
consist of external covariates, including operational and environmental loads, as well as in-
ternal covariates based on sensor data. The next step is to identify the features of these vari-
ables. Then, in situ measurements and deviations from the features associated with healthy
states are used to detect anomalous behavior.Once anomalies are detected, isolation tech-
niques identify features that significantly contribute to the abnormal status. These features
are further used as inputs of PoF models for RUL prediction. For the purpose of feature
isolation, various data-mining and machine learning-based techniques (e.g., principal com-
ponent analysis, mutual information-based feature selection, and support vector machine)
can be employed.[06] Figure 3.3 depits working of Fusion PHM methodology.
Figure 3.3: Fusion PHM Methodology [04]
13
3.3 Technology Stack For IoT-Based PHM
The smart, connected elements of IoT require an appropriate technology infrastructure. This
infrastructure is represented as a ”technology stack” and is shown in Fig. 3.4. A technology
stack facilitates data exchange between the asset and the user, integrates data from business
systems and external sources, serves as the platform for data storage and analytics, runs ap-
plications, and safeguards access to assets and the data flowing to and from them. The lower
half of the technology stack describes the elements associated with the asset. There are two
parts - software and hardware. One of the evolutions currently underway is the addition of
embedded sensors, RFID tags, and processors built into the asset. Collectively, this enables
new data to be collected for PHM. This data needs to be transmitted, and therefore network
connectivity, as shown in the central block, is a key feature of IoT. The data collected and
transmitted has to be stored and processed in an efficient and interpretable way. This is in-
creasingly being done using cloud computing services, represented by the top block in the
technology stack. The user, shown at the top of the figure, includes people who access the
results of the analysis as well as those involved in the development and maintenance of the
technology stack elements and the models it supports.
Figure 3.4: Technology stack for supporting IoT [04]
14
3.4 IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
IoT based PHM has been and will be implemented in following sectors of industries:
1. Manufacturing
2. Heavy Industry: Mobile Assets (Ships, aeroplanes, mining, construction, etc.)
3. Energy generation
4. Transportation and Logistics
5. Infrastructure Assets (water, gas, electricity, etc.)
6. Automobiles
7. Robotics
The ”smart” ships shown in Figure.3.5 are a good example of a value-added asset for heavy
industry, whereby sensor information from the environment (e.g., sea waves, tidal currents,
and winds), the ship itself (e.g., devices, modules, and systems), and other ships (e.g.,
routes), are analyzed to provide the captain with the optimal (e.g., fast and economic) route
information, maintenance plans, and safe fleet management.
Figure 3.5: Conceptual Representation of Smart Ships [01]
15
3.5 Mathematical Model
Let S be the system to implement IoT Based prognostics
S ={....
Let set of input I = I1, I2
I1 = {Real time sensor data input}
I2 = {Historical data}
Let set of Functions F = {F1, F2, F3, F4}
F1 = {Function to identify type of prognostic required — Data-Driven, PoF based, Fusion}
F2 = {Function to process data and store relevent results.}
F3 = {Function to estimate RUL and tune Load Balancing factors}
F4 = {Function to provide visual representation of performance of system — Graphs, Charts}
Let set of output O = {O1, O2}
O1 = {Visual representation of RUL and system performance}
O2 = {New balanced load for system based on data analysis}
Success = {
• Prognostics done accurately and RUL calculated.
• Load balancing successful.
}
Failure = {
• Incorrect sensor data received
• Load balance tuning incorrect
}
s = {I, O , F , Success, Failure}
16
Chapter 4
Discussion of Results
As the survey suggests, IoT platform is superior to all other prognostics techniques. It
provides freatures like real time data collection, analysis which reduce assessment time and
cost. Even though IoT based prognostics helps in proper assessment of health of industrial
systems, there are certain challenges which we need to overcome during its implementation.
Some of those challenges are:
• Need of complex Analytics: Machine Learning and Data Mining.
• Security (As data is analysed over cloud by remote users).
• Need to develop new Business Models to incorporate IoT.
• Energy harvesting - Sensors run on battery which depletes over time.
IoT based PHM can be applied to various sectors of industry such as manufacturing, re-
source management, etc. Besides industrial applications, it can be designed to work for
various different sectors such as health care management.
17
Chapter 5
Conclusion and Future work
This report introduced the opportunities and challenges of IoT-based PHM for industrial
applications. While this paper presented examples of companies successfully implement-
ing IoT-based PHM, a major impediment is still the human capital to develop, validate, and
maintain the models necessary for prognostics. These models require the engineering, statis-
tics, and machine learning communities to work together. PHM requires the ability to link
the anomalous patterns in the data to the failure modes and make connections to the under-
lying physics of failure (e.g. the failure mechanisms). One of the challenges with big data is
that given enough data, one will always be able to find relationships, also called ”spurious
correlations”.
To accelerate IoT-based PHM development, datasets on real asset failures need to be avail-
able. These datasets will enable the development of new algorithms and the validation of
existing algorithms for specific applications. Conditionmonitoring data alone is often not
sufficient for PHM; metadata about the asset, its operating environment, and the external
covariates that influence its deterioration would also be required. Of particular importance
is the collection of failure modes and mechanisms for failure events. This data has usually
been stored in separate systems to the sensor data. The advent of IoT enables these datasets
to be merged and made available for analysis. Recent moves to develop a global prognostics
data library will assist in making fit-for-purpose datasets more widely available.
A common feature of IoT platforms is a focus on open architecture. These open access plat-
forms enable development of applications by third parties. This transition to open access
is a paradigm shift for many businesses that have previously relied on proprietary products
for competitive advantage. A number of international businesses and government groups are
also now experimenting with open competitions using the platforms Kaggle and Hackathons
to make datasets available for predictive analytics.
Although there are challenges to the implementation of IoT-based PHM, most of the issues
are not insurmountable. Sensors are becoming small enough that they do not interfere with
the product functions and have connectivity with lower power consumption. To process the
data, hardware and software support using advanced statistical and machine learning meth-
ods is improving. Cloud computing capacity and speed have also increased significantly to
meet the needs. Perhaps the biggest concern is with respect to the security of data.
18
The key conclusion is that IoT-based PHM is expected to have significant infuence on the
implementation of reliability assessment, prediction, and risk mitigation, and create new
business opportunities.
19
References
[1] Accenture. (Apr. 28, 2015). Hyundai Heavy Industries and Accenture
to Build Connected Smart Ships. [Online]. Available: https://newsroom.
accenture.com/news/hyundai-heavy-industries-and-accenture-to-buildconnected-
smart-ships.htm
[2] A. K. S. Jardine, D. Lin, and D. Banjevic, “A review on machinery diagnostics and
prognostics implementing condition-based maintenance,” Mech. Syst. Signal Process.,
vol. 20, pp. 1483-1510, Oct. 2006.
[3] Decai Yang- Physics-of-failure-based prognostics and health management for electronic
products (http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6922862/)
[4] D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
[5] J. Gu and M. Pecht, “Prognostics and health management using physicsof- failure,” in
Proc. Annu. Rel. Maintainab. Symp., 2008, pp. 481-487.
[6] M. Pecht, T. Shibutani, M. Kang, M. Hodkiewicz, and E. Cripps, ”A fusion prognostics-
based qualification test methodology for microelectronic products”, Microelectron. Rel.
20

