SPECIAL SECTION ON TRENDS AND ADVANCES FOR AMBIENT INTELLIGENCE WITH
INTERNET OF THINGS (IoT) SYSTEMS
Received June 12, 2016, accepted June 27, 2016, date of current version July 22, 2016.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2016.2587754
IoT-Based Prognostics and Systems Health
Management for Industrial Applications
DAEIL KWON1, (Member, IEEE), MELINDA R. HODKIEWICZ2, (Member, IEEE),
JIAJIE FAN3, (Member, IEEE), TADAHIRO SHIBUTANI4, AND MICHAEL G. PECHT5, (Fellow, IEEE)
1Department of System Design and Control Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology, Ulsan 44919, South Korea
2Faculty of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics, The University of Western Australia, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia
3College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Hohai University, Changzhou 213022, China
4Institute of Advanced Sciences, Yokohama National University, Yokohama 240-8501, Japan
5Center for Advanced Life Cycle Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USA
Corresponding author: D. Kwon (dkwon@unist.ac.kr)
This work was supported in part by the Basic Science Research Program within the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning through
the National Research Foundation of Korea under Grant NRF-2014R1A1A1003653, in part by the Ulsan National Institute of Science and
Technology through the 2016 Research Fund under Grant 1.160046.01, in part by the Australian ARC Industrial Transformation Research
Hub for Offshore Floating Facilities under Grant IH140100012, the BHP Billiton Fellowship for Engineering for Remote Operations, in
part by the Natural Science Foundation, in part by the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province under Grant BK20150249, in part
by the Changzhou Science and Technology Program under Grant CJ20159053, in part by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science
through the Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research under Grant 15K12459, and in part by the CALCE Consortium.
ABSTRACT Prognostics and systems health management (PHM) is an enabling discipline that uses
sensors to assess the health of systems, diagnoses anomalous behavior, and predicts the remaining useful
performance over the life of the asset. The advent of the Internet of Things (IoT) enables PHM to be applied
to all types of assets across all sectors, thereby creating a paradigm shift that is opening up significant new
business opportunities. This paper introduces the concepts of PHM and discusses the opportunities provided
by the IoT. Developments are illustrated with examples of innovations from manufacturing, consumer
products, and infrastructure. From this review, a number of challenges that result from the rapid adoption of
IoT-based PHM are identified. These include appropriate analytics, security, IoT platforms, sensor energy
harvesting, IoT business models, and licensing approaches.
INDEX TERMS Internet of things, maintenance, prognostics and systems health management, reliability,
remaining useful life.
ACRONYMS
PHM Prognostics and Health Management
IoT Internet of Things
MEMS Micro Electronic Mechanical Systems
RFID Radio Frequency IDentification
CBM Condition-Based Maintenance
RUL Remaining Useful Life
PoF Physics of Failure
FMMEA Failure Modes, Mechanisms, and Effects
Analysis
TTF Time to Failure
MRO Maintenance, Repair and Operations
IVHM Integrated Vehicle Health Management
NFF No Fault Found
I. INTRODUCTION
Reliability is the ability of an asset to perform under expected
performance requirements for a specified period of time in
field use conditions [1]. Customers expect their purchases
to be reliable, and reliability influences their willingness to
pay. Manufacturers need to balance customer expectations
and profit expectations by designing for reliability and quality
goals. Infrastructure (e.g., roads, ports) and utility (e.g., water,
power, gas) operators providing services for their commu-
nities need to balance the costs, risks, and performance of
their assets. The direct costs and reputation loss caused by
poor asset reliability can significantly impact organizational
performance. The ability to predict an asset’s reliability is
therefore a core capability.
This organizational capability is enabled by appropri-
ate prognostics and systems health management (PHM)
practices. PHM originates the idea that the ‘‘health’’
(or degradation) of assets can be determined and the reli-
ability (and remaining useful performance over the life of
the asset) predicted with the aid of in situ sensing [2]. PHM
methodologies are based on several key elements in which
VOLUME 4, 2016
2169-3536 
 2016 IEEE. Translations and content mining are permitted for academic research only.
Personal use is also permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
3659
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
sensors provide the capability of monitoring failure precur-
sors and environmental loading conditions (e.g. stresses).
Asset manufacturers and operators have used sensors for
decades to collect health data on assets, defined as ‘‘an
item, thing or entity that has potential or actual value to an
organization’’ [3]. Data collection today is often conducted
using sensors hard-wired to industrial control systems to aid
in assessing operational performance. In addition, technicians
take readings from a machine to check its performance
and may then discard the data [4]. However, developments
in the IoT offer a new paradigm in which sensor data
is streamed wirelessly from ‘‘things,’’ which may be sys-
tems, sub-systems, or assets, to remote servers in the cloud.
In this manner, all data relevant to health estimation
(e.g., environmental conditions, maintenance, and operat-
ing data) are available for health monitoring and prognostic
assessment. This sharing of information across assets and
platforms enables the development of a complete operating
picture and the flexibility to assess and manage new and even
previously unknown risks.
The term IoT was reportedly first used in 1997 [5] so it
is not a new idea. The Institution of Electrical and Elec-
tronic Engineers (IEEE) defines IoT as ‘‘a network of items,
each embedded with sensors, which are connected to the
Internet’’ [6]. This network enables the connection of geo-
graphically dispersed people and assets. Today, IoT is devel-
oping momentum due to a number of technical, cost, and
standardization drivers and developments [7], [8]. The size
and cost of sensors are decreasing due to advances in micro-
electronic-mechanical systems (MEMS) technology. In 2011,
the number of interconnected devices (things) on the planet
overtook the number of people [8]. Gartner, Inc., forecasts
that 6.4 billion connected things will be in use worldwide
in 2016, up 30% from 2015, and that number will reach
20.8 billion by 2020. In 2016, 5.5 million new things are
estimated to be connected every day [9]. Access to real-time
data is increasing due to wireless technologies, including
radio frequency identification (RFID) tags and embedded
sensors, and the proliferation of wireless sensor networks
and addressing schemes that give each ‘‘thing’’ a unique
address. The cost of connectivity is also decreasing, and,
as more spectrum becomes available, the ability to commu-
nicate with more and different sensors is increasing. Further-
more, consumer confidence in, and use of, cloud computing
and the reduction of the cost of data storage enables storing of
massive datasets and provides a platform for the data analyt-
ics and machine learning algorithms used by the prognostics
and system health monitoring models.
This paper shows how IoT and PHM can be integrated.
We also discuss the opportunities that the IoT offers, and
present some unique business innovations being implemented
in industrial applications.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows:
Section II provides a brief overview of PHM methodologies
and their applications. Section III introduces IoT-based PHM
approaches for industrial applications and discusses potential
benefits according to representative industry sectors. Section
IV discusses the challenges of IoT-based PHM and potential
financial benefits. Finally, concluding remarks and sugges-
tions are presented in Section V.
II. OVERVIEW OF PROGNOSTICS AND SYSTEMS
HEALTH MANAGEMENT (PHM)
For asset owners and operators, the health management strat-
egy for a particular asset is dependent on the asset’s failure
behavior (failure modes) and the consequence of failure.
There are generally considered to be four types of man-
agement strategies: corrective, fixed-interval preventative,
failure-finding, and condition-based maintenance. Of these,
condition-based maintenance (CBM) requires the highest
level of asset management maturity. Rather than waiting until
an asset fails or replacing it at a fixed interval, CBM uses
sensor data and models to detect deterioration and select an
appropriate time for maintenance. A successful CBM pro-
gram relies on effective PHM.
PHM can be an effective solution for detecting anoma-
lies and faults, diagnosing failures, predicting residual
(remaining) lifetimes, and estimating the reliability of assets.
Some examples of successful applications of PHM include
electronics [10], [11], rotating machinery [12]–[14], and
linear assets such as transport, water, and electrical distribu-
tion [15], [16]. PHM consists of four dimensions: sensing,
diagnosis, prognosis, and management, as shown in Fig. 1.
FIGURE 1. Four dimensions of PHM.
Sensing enables anomaly detectability by selecting and
appropriately locating sensors that provide the capability to
collect a history of time-dependent degradation of materials
or environmental stresses. Anomalies do not necessarily indi-
cate a failure. Changes in operating conditions, as well as
asset performance degradation, can influence data to show
anomalous behavior. However, even this type of anomaly
information is valuable to asset management.
Diagnosis extracts fault-related information from the sen-
sor signals caused by anomalies in asset health. Anomalies
may result from material degradation, as well as changes in
use conditions. Diagnosis relates the signal anomalies to a
failure mode(s), and identifies the quantity of damage that has
occurred as a health indicator. The results from this anomaly
diagnosis can provide advanced warnings of failure, referred
to as failure precursors.
3660 VOLUME 4, 2016
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
Prognostics or remaining useful performance over the
life of the asset [sometimes referred to as remaining useful
life (RUL)] estimation methods use algorithms to predict the
progression of a specific failure mechanism from its incipi-
ence to failure within appropriate confidence intervals. This
step often requires additional information not traditionally
provided by sensors, such as maintenance history, past and
future operating profiles, and environmental factors [17], but
available within the IoT.
The final key aspects of PHM are to effect appropriate
decision making; to prevent catastrophic failures; to increase
asset availability by reducing downtime and no-fault-founds;
to extend maintenance cycles and execute timely repair
actions; to lower life-cycle costs from reductions in inspec-
tion, repair, and inventory costs; and to improve system qual-
ification, design, and logistical support.
PHM integrates component lifetime estimation and reli-
ability prediction, enabling the reliability of an asset to be
evaluated and providing the opportunity to manage the asset
risk. A successful PHM execution relies on the selection of
appropriate prognostic approaches. Currently, there are many
prognostic techniques, and their usage must be tuned for
each application. Prognostic methods can be classified by the
following three approaches: physics-of-failure (PoF)-based,
data-driven, and fusion.
FIGURE 2. PoF-based PHM methodology [18].
A. PHYSICS-OF-FAILURE (PoF) APPROACHES
A PoF approach uses knowledge of how things degrade and
fail. This knowledge is based on physical laws linked with
a mathematical model [18]. As shown in Fig. 2, the PoF
approach requires understanding of the process by which
physical, electrical, chemical, and mechanical stresses act
on materials to induce failure. The procedure of conducting
PHM using a PoF approach can be summarized in the follow-
ing five steps [19]:
Step 1: Identify the critical failure mechanisms and fail-
ure sites using failure modes, mechanisms, and effects
analysis (FMMEA) [1];
Step 2: Monitor the life-cycle loads that may lead to per-
formance or physical degradation and the associated asset
responses;
Step 3: Extract features from the variables that change in
response to deterioration associated with the failure mecha-
nisms identified at Step 1;
Step 4: Assess damage and calculate remaining life using
the PoF models of the failure mechanisms; and,
Step 5: Estimate uncertainty and predict the time-to-
failure (TTF) as a distribution.
FMMEA provides a list of potential failure modes, mech-
anisms, and the corresponding models of an asset. Accord-
ing to the occurrence, severity, and detectability, FMMEA
assigns scores to each potential failure mode, and ranks
them to identify the critical failure modes. Life-cycle load
monitoring establishes a history of loading conditions of
the asset, such as thermal, mechanical, chemical, physi-
cal, and electrical loading conditions. Sensors are used to
collect data from which features are extracted to represent
and quantify the failure. The extent of damage is assessed
using the PoF model for the various failure mechanisms.
Uncertainty analysis of the life prediction enables risk-based
decisions. Uncertainty sources include measurement errors,
model parameter estimates, failure criteria, and future usage.
A Monte- Carlo simulation can be used to provide the TTF
as a distribution based on probabilistic damage assessment.
The main advantage of a PoF approach is the ability
to incorporate an engineering-based understanding of the
system into PHM by using knowledge of the materials
and geometries of an asset, as well as the load conditions
(e.g., thermal, mechanical, electrical, chemical) over the life
cycle. PoF models tend to be failure mechanism-specific,
therefore, they are sometimes not available in new designs
where an up-front design for reliability was not implemented.
B. DATA-DRIVEN APPROACHES
Data-driven approaches use data analytics andmachine learn-
ing to determine anomalies and make predictions about the
reliability of assets based on internal and/or external covari-
ates (also called endogenous and exogenous covariates).
Internal covariates (e.g., temperature, vibration) aremeasured
by sensors on the asset and are only present when the asset is
operating. External covariates (e.g., weather data) are present
whether or not the asset is operating [20]. The data-driven
approach analyzes asset performance data based on a training
database of internal and/or external covariates. This may be
implemented either by obtaining data under healthy condi-
tions or from data-mining techniques.
Data-driven approaches for PHM are used for both the
diagnosis and prognosis stages, often .based on statistical and
machine learning approaches [21]. These may include use
of (1) multivariate statistical methods [22]–[25]; (2) black-
box methods [26], [27]; (3) graphical models [28], [29];
(4) self-organizing feature maps; (5) time-domain methods;
and (6) fuzzy rule-based systems. Reviews of these different
models and more examples of their applications are found
in [2] and [30]. Model selection depends on the requirements
and objectives of the anomaly detection, diagnostics, and
prediction. The following questions need to be considered
VOLUME 4, 2016 3661
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
during model selection: How well does the model describe
the reality? How accurate is the prediction? How robust is
the modelling approach?
Compared to PoF approaches, data-driven approaches do
not necessarily need asset-specific information. Data-driven
approaches can learn the behavior of the asset based on the
data collected, and can be used to analyze intermittent faults
by detecting changes in asset features. The approaches can
also be used in complex assets with multiple and potentially
competing failure modes as long as the asset exhibits repeat-
able behavior. In other words, the strength of data-driven
approaches is their ability to transform high-dimensional
noisy data into lower-dimensional information for diagnostic
and prognostic decisions. However, data-driven approaches
have some limitations, the main drawback being a reliance
on historical data on the failure modes or mechanisms the
analyst seeks to detect. This can be an issue especially when
the consequence of failure is high, resulting in reliance on
simulated or laboratory rather than field data for the training
dataset. Reliance on historical data is also an issue for new
products for which an extensive field failure history is not
available.
FIGURE 3. Fusion PHM methodology.
C. FUSION (PoF-BASED/DATA-DRIVEN
HYBRID) APPROACHES
The fusion approach shown in Fig. 3 combines the advantages
from the PoF-based and data-driven approaches to allow
better RUL prediction capability [31]. This approach reduces
the reliance on historical datasets and addresses the issue of
previously unseen failure modes.
In fusion PHM, the first step is to determine which vari-
ables to monitor. The variables consist of external covari-
ates, including operational and environmental loads, as well
as internal covariates based on sensor data. The next step
is to identify the features of these variables. Then, in situ
measurements and deviations from the features associated
with healthy states are used to detect anomalous behavior
(e.g., Mahalanobis distance [32], [33], sequential probabil-
ity ratio test [34], and self-organizing map). Once anoma-
lies are detected, isolation techniques identify features that
significantly contribute to the abnormal status. These features
are further used as inputs of PoF models for RUL prediction.
For the purpose of feature isolation, various data-mining and
machine learning-based techniques (e.g., principal compo-
nent analysis [35], mutual information-based feature selec-
tion, and support vector machine [36]) can be employed.
PoF models are used to assess in situ degradation of the
asset under particular environmental and operating condi-
tions. In fact, a number of potential failure mechanisms may
exist in the use of the asset. Hence, it is theoretically necessary
to have PoF model(s) corresponding to each failure mecha-
nism for accurate assessment of in situ degradation, which
may not always be the case. So, the fusion PHM scheme
basically identifies and prioritizes the potential mechanisms
for the asset under certain environmental and operational
conditions. Then, PoF models can be identified from the
database involving pre-defined PoF models.
Failure definition is considered as a process of defining
the criteria of failure. Additionally, failure definition is based
on PoF models, historical usage data, asset specifications,
or related standards for each potential failure mechanism.
In Fig. 3, degradation modeling is defined as a process of
learning (or predicting) the behavior of the model param-
eters highly correlated with failure. To predict a parame-
ter degradation trend, techniques such as relevance vector
machine [37], hidden Markov model, and filters [38]
(e.g., Kalman filter [39] and particle filter [40]) can be used.
Finally, the RUL is predicted by determining if the predictive
parameters meet the failure criteria resulting from failure
mode definition. TTF can also be predicted using statistical
and machine learning models.
Owing to the aforementioned advantages, the fusion
approach has been successfully applied to RUL estimation
for electronics, avionics, and structures. For instance, the
fusion PHMapproach successfully predicted the RUL ofmul-
tilayer ceramic capacitors that can be found in a wide array
of applications, including consumer electronics, telecommu-
nications, data processing, personal computers, hard disks,
video cameras, mobile phones, and general electronic cir-
cuits [41]. The fusion PHM approach was also used to predict
the RUL of lithium-ion batteries, resulting in information that
can be used for scheduling battery recharge and replacement
for emerging electric and aerospace vehicles [42]. The RUL
estimation based on the fusion PHM approach for avion-
ics systems, insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs), and
corrosion fatigue of physical structures was reported in the
literature [43]–[45].
III. IoT-BASED PHM FOR INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS
The smart, connected elements of IoT require an appropriate
technology infrastructure. This infrastructure is represented
as a ‘‘technology stack’’ and is shown in Fig. 4. A technol-
ogy stack facilitates data exchange between the asset and
the user, integrates data from business systems and external
sources, serves as the platform for data storage and analytics,
runs applications, and safeguards access to assets and the
3662 VOLUME 4, 2016
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
FIGURE 4. Technology stack for supporting IoT.
data flowing to and from them [46]. The lower half of the
technology stack describes the elements associated with the
asset. There are two parts—software and hardware. One of
the evolutions currently underway is the addition of embed-
ded sensors, RFID tags, and processors built into the asset.
Collectively, this enables new data to be collected for PHM.
This data needs to be transmitted, and therefore network
connectivity, as shown in the central block, is a key feature
of IoT. The data collected and transmitted has to be stored
and processed in an efficient and interpretable way. This
is increasingly being done using cloud computing services,
represented by the top block in the technology stack. The
user, shown at the top of the figure, includes people who
access the results of the analysis as well as those involved
in the development and maintenance of the technology stack
elements and the models it supports. The blocks on either
side of the stack identify the importance of authentication
and security at all levels in the technology stack as well as
the potential relationships with other systems and sources of
information.
The following section considers how IoT has been and will
be applied in the near future for PHM applications in different
industrial sectors.
A. MANUFACTURING
Manufacturing is a major source of economic benefit in
many countries. The manufacturing industry has traditionally
focused on product quantity for mass production. In order
to strengthen competitiveness, the manufacturing paradigm
is now shifting towards combining sales with maintenance
service enabled by IoT [4]. There is a significant shift under-
way from a focus on products alone to a focus on platforms.
In a platform approach, a company’s product operates as
a facilitator and the product’s value is created by the par-
ticipants instead of the company itself. Examples include
platform-based businesses such as Apple, Uber, and AirBnB.
A prerequisite for a successful platform is a company’s ability
to build a value proposition around an ecosystem and not
only around its own products [47]. The effect of this ability
on manufacturers’ relationships with customers is discussed
in Section III.B.
In the manufacturing industry, Industrie 4.0 and its asso-
ciated Smart Factory program are initiatives of the German
government to assist in the development of cyber-physical
platforms that enable IoT developments [48]. Cyber-physical
platforms change the traditional manufacturing processes by
integrating devices, equipment, and platforms in a factory,
connecting factory-to-factory and integrating operational and
information technologies [49]. Examples of platforms that
support these ideas include the Siemens Totally Integrated
Automation portal [50], GE’s Predix platform [4], [51], and
SAP Hana [52].
Japanese manufacturers tend to collaborate with IT com-
panies to develop IoT-based manufacturing systems. For
example, Toshiba Machine has developed an IoT-based PHM
system with NEC. Customers’ products send failure and
operating information to NEC data centers, and Toshiba
Machine then uses the cloud to proposemaintenance services.
By resolving the root causes of failure offsite, travel expenses
for troubleshooting are reduced by 15%. Nidec has devel-
oped a similar IoT-based system in conjunction with IBM.
A machine at Nidec sends operating information to the data
center managed by IBM. The data center provides diagnosis
of the machine based on the data collected [53], [54].
B. HEAVY INDUSTRY: MOBILE ASSETS
Mobile assets in heavy industry include airplanes, ships, and
construction and mining equipment. These industries have
embraced opportunities provided by IoT because their equip-
ment is mobile and therefore data needs to be transmitted in
real time in order to enable management decision making.
Mobile assets are increasingly connected across the fleet,
and the use of IoT allows for remote management of both
maintenance and operational processes.
The ‘‘smart’’ ships shown in Fig. 5 are a good example
of a value-added asset for heavy industry, whereby sensor
information from the environment (e.g., sea waves, tidal
currents, and winds), the ship itself (e.g., devices, modules,
and systems), and other ships (e.g., routes), are analyzed
to provide the captain with the optimal (e.g., fast and eco-
nomic) route information, maintenance plans, and safe fleet
management [55].
Construction and mining equipment products, such as
excavators, wheel loaders, and backhoe loaders, are embrac-
ing the benefits of connectivity and monitoring [56]. Because
construction sites are often in remote or even isolated loca-
tions, connectivity and real-time monitoring are required and
PHM is becoming a more critical function. For example,
Komatsu monitors and diagnoses faults in their construction
VOLUME 4, 2016 3663
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
FIGURE 5. Conceptual representation of smart ships.
equipment products in the field via satellite communica-
tions [57]. Similarly, GE monitors their gas turbines in the
field and collects more than 30,000 hours of operation data
per day from their power plants installed world-wide. The
monitoring system triggers alarms when the monitoring vari-
ables, such as noise, vibration, and temperature, show anoma-
lous behavior. GE reported that PHM application saved more
than $70 million in 2014 [58]. Rolls-Royce now offers a
business model that charges an hourly service fee for their
jet engines. They monitor their products in the field in real
time and provide their customers with optimizedmaintenance
because it is forecasted as needed, rather than scheduled or,
worse yet, conducted after a failure has occurred [59]. Thus,
IoT-based PHM adds values to products and systems in the
field, and can be used as a marketing strategy to differentiate
businesses.
C. ENERGY GENERATION
The energy-generation industry consists of nuclear, thermal
power, and renewable energy. Thermal power (oil, coal, and
natural gas) generates 81.4% of the world’s supply, biofuels
10.2%, nuclear 4.8%, hydro 2.4%, and renewables (geother-
mal, wind, and heat) 1.2% [60].
Power generation is a significant contributor to CO2 emis-
sions, responsible for about 50% globally. Hence, significant
effort is going into improving the efficiency of generation and
distribution. Cloud computing is enabling the development
of so-called ‘‘smart grid’’ computing. Smart grids use large
numbers of networked sensors, power electronic devices,
distributed electricity generators, and communications appli-
ances. As a result, the electric grid is becoming smarter and
more complex, but requires integration of a large quantity
of real-time information and data processing [61]. IoT-based
PHM is an integral part of a smart grid as engineers seek to
monitor the health of key components in the network.
Renewable energy includes wind, hydro, solar, and biofuel
energy generation. Among these, wind energy generation
often encounters reliability issues. In order to deliver desired
capacity, wind power plants often require long blades and
high towers, which increase the load and stress, and may
eventually cause wind turbine failure. Many wind farms are
located in remote locations, such as offshore or on a moun-
tain, where accessibility is limited. A number of organiza-
tions, for example, GE (Digital Wind Farm) and Siemens
(Wind Service Solutions), now provide IoT service solutions
for wind farms. These solutions aim to optimize turbine
performance and equipment life by using RUL estimation
models to predict maintenance requirements [62].
IoT-based PHM in the energy-generation industry can
change the maintenance paradigm by supporting the use of
more CBM. It can increase plant reliability and availability,
stabilize the power supply with fewer power interruptions,
and eventually provide the industry with a good reputation
and customer trust. In addition, IoT-based PHM plays a role
in ensuring that aging power infrastructure is appropriately
monitored for unplanned failures and that deteriorated assets
are replaced at cost- and risk-effective intervals.
D. TRANSPORTATION AND LOGISTICS
IoT is playing an increasing role in the transportation and
logistics industries as more physical objects are equipped
with barcodes, RFID tags, and sensors. Transportation and
logistics companies now conduct real-time monitoring as
they move physical objects from an origin to a destination
across their supply chain. From an IoT-based PHM perspec-
tive, the ability to see how long an item has been in storage
and underwhat conditions (e.g., heat, vibration, humidity, and
contaminating environments) enhances the ability to predict
failures. An asset may undergo several loading conditions or
even fail during transportation and storage due to unexpected
exposure to mechanical shock and vibration, cosmic radia-
tion, or being in a too dry, wet, or humid environment.
Commercial aviation spends more than 50% of its total
expenses on maintenance, repair, and operations (MRO) [63].
Aircraft component failure results in significant loss of safety,
profit, as well as reputation. Integrated vehicle health man-
agement (IVHM) is a unified system that assesses the current
and future states of vehicles, and has evolved over the last
50 years [64]. IVHM with PHM capability has the poten-
tial to influence aircraft design by reducing system redun-
dancy, resulting in fewer subsystems and modules on an
aircraft. IoT-based PHM application in aviation can reduce
unplannedmaintenance and no-fault-found (NFF) events, and
can improve aircraft availability and safety [65].
E. INFRASTRUCTURE ASSETS
Infrastructure assets (e.g., water, gas, power) are often geo-
graphically dispersed and hence reliant on remote monitoring
and sensor telemetry. In the water industry, the ability to place
an IoT solution on a flow meter allows real-time data to pre-
dict and adjust consumption. The ability to link operational
data to condition-monitoring data enables predictive analytic
solutions to be run in the cloud and prediction of network
failures.
Infrastructure organizations are exploring ways in which
sensors unconnected with the asset can be used to provide
3664 VOLUME 4, 2016
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
relevant asset health monitoring information, for example,
the use of accelerometers in drivers’ mobile phones to
detect potholes and other road defects [66]. Cities and local
governments are at the forefront of making data they
collect publically available. Often called ‘‘smart cities’’ pro-
grams, these initiatives enable developers to create appli-
cations that enhance management of public infrastructure
assets [67], [68].
F. AUTOMOBILES
The automobile industry is driving innovation in the appli-
cation of technology that enables consumers to get advanced
notice of problems with their vehicles as well as real-time
diagnostics support. For example, cars made by General
Motors, Tesla, BMW, and other manufacturers now have their
own application programming interfaces (APIs). The APIs
allow applications built by third parties to interface with the
data collected on the car. This enables the development of
applications for IoT-based PHM that add value by increasing
connectivity, availability, and safety.
IoT allows ‘‘smart’’ cars in the field to connect to the net-
work, enabling real-time navigation, remote vehicle control,
self-diagnosis, and in-vehicle infotainment service. Smart
cars can connect to other cars, as well as infrastructure, to
share their route information for efficient route planning.
Smart cars are evolving as a connected device, and in the
future users may be able to purchase mobility through a
driverless car network rather than having to own a car [69].
The reliability of a future smart car network will depend on
appropriate use of IoT-based PHM. Cars with deteriorating
health will need to be scheduled out of the system, so that
unplanned in-service failures, which may affect the car net-
work performance, can be avoided.
G. MEDICAL CONSUMER PRODUCTS
Medical devices are another area where consumer needs are
increasing, and the consequences of their failures can be
critical. For example, failures of in- vivo devices, such as
pacemakers, can cause patient death. Medical devices can
fail due to battery performance degradation. Patients with
pacemakers are required to check at a fixed-time interval to
ensure the device is functioning correctly. IoT-based PHM
allows medical consumer products to be monitored and diag-
nosed continuously and remotely, and therefore can help
these patients by reducing the number of intervals required
for regular checking. IoT-based PHM of medical devices can
also facilitate remote patient monitoring, homecare service
for the elderly, and chronic disease management [70], [71].
H. WARRANTY SERVICES
Conventionally, customers seek warranty services when their
assets fail. However, seeking a remedy to failure after the
failure has occurred is costly for both the customers and
maintainers. The customer loses operational availability, and
the maintainers must conduct corrective maintenance, which
is generally more expensive than predictive maintenance due
to collateral damage, scheduling, diagnosis, and spare parts
availability. In addition, waiting until an asset fails can pose
safety (and liability) issues.
FIGURE 6. Inclusion of IoT-based PHM in predictive warranty service.
Fig. 6 overviews a predictive warranty service, where the
asset is one that the customer has a significant investment in
and for which the operational availability of the asset is of
critical importance to the customer (e.g., cars and aircraft).
The inclusion of IoT-based PHM into warranties can augment
the customer’s ability to make a decision about whether to
seek warranty service prior to asset failure by offering useful
information, such as the onset of the asset’s degradation,
type of failure, and RUL. Consequently, IoT-based PHM can
facilitate effective logistical support by showing where and
how the customer’s asset is degrading [72].
I. ROBOTICS
Robots use a combination of sensors and actuators to fulfil
their functions. These sensors can also be used for PHM
when tied into an IoT system. The robotics market is expand-
ing in many countries. For example, the U.S. government
released the national robotics initiative in 2011 to accelerate
the development and use of robots. In 2014, the E.U. launched
a research and innovation project in the field of robotics
through collaboration between the European Commission
and around 180 private companies [73]. The Japanese gov-
ernment also released their robot strategy in 2015 [74]. The
Japanese government advocates a five-year plan that aims at
implementing next-generation robots through the advance-
ment of sensor and artificial intelligence (AI) technologies.
IoT enables robots to connect to other robots and devices.
FANUC’s Intelligent Edge Link Drive (FIELD) system is an
example of IoT-based PHM [75]. It is a platform that connects
not only robots, but also peripheral devices and sensors.
FANUC is collaborating with Cisco, Rockwell Automation,
and Preferred Networks to establish the platform.
IoT expands the definition of robots from simple task
performers to autonomous ones with self-learning abilities.
This transformation has the potential to make robots play an
important role in interacting with humans. IoT-based PHM
can be a key technology for autonomous robots. It enables
robots to diagnose themselves based on collecting data and
AI technologies as a self-cognizant electronic system.
VOLUME 4, 2016 3665
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
IV. MAKING IoT-BASED PHM WORK
The previous section described a number of current and
significant business opportunities for IoT-based PHM. This
section discusses some of the key challenges, in particular,
analytics, security, IoT platforms, energy harvesting, IoT
business models, and licensing and entitlement management.
A. ANALYTICS: MACHINE LEARNING AND DATA MINING
In an IoT-based PHM environment, the ever-growing use
of sensors and networked things can result in the contin-
uous generation of high-volume, high-velocity, and high-
variety data, which is known as ‘‘big data’’ [76]. Conventional
analytical approaches have been shown to be inadequate
and need to be extended and adapted to deal with the
challenge of scale, diversity, and the distributed nature of
the data [77], [78]. Some of the major challenges include
learning in distributed settings, learning from very high-
dimensional data, and learning from heterogeneous and com-
plex data. Hence, novel frameworks such as the alternating
direction method of multipliers [79] are being introduced
to enable optimization, a core functionality of many learn-
ing algorithms, in such distributed settings. Advances have
enabled versions of successful machine learning algorithms
such as convolutional neural nets [80], restricted Boltzman
machines [81], support vector machines [82], and regres-
sion [83] for large-scale settings.
In addition, there have been advances in methods aimed
at analyzing big data at scale for anomaly detection and time-
series forecasting. These are needed for use cases that require
online learning or where the models need to be adapted
to evolving realities. Feature extraction is also one of the
challenges that has resurfaced since it is no longer feasible for
learning features to be designed or discovered using conven-
tional techniques. Novel approaches are enabling automated
feature extraction and learning in cases where generalized
models can be built from extremely large distributed datasets.
One of the most promising developments has been in learning
sophisticated networks and auto-encoders via deep learning
methods [84]. Deep learning is starting to show significant
promise in PHM [85]–[87].
B. SECURITY
In the IoT-based PHM scheme, data are collected by wire-
less sensors and transmitted to a base system (e.g., a local
server or a server in the cloud) or computer for post-
analysis. Many wireless technologies have been recently
used for data transmission, such as RFID, Bluetooth,
Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11), Ultra-Wideband, WiMax (Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access and IEEE 802.16),
and ZigBee (IEEE 802.15.4) [88]. Reliability and affordabil-
ity of IoT-based PHM applications is closely associated with
connection robustness, security, and real-time data access.
However, the problem faced in data transmission is that
malicious software might disturb data integrity. That is,
the leakage of security-critical information (e.g., a system’s
usage record and performance information) can affect the
trustworthiness of the IoT-based PHM system. Accordingly,
security is one of the major issues to be addressed in
IoT-based PHM.
C. IoT PLATFORMS
IoT platforms help reduce the cost of developing IoT-based
services and applications. Without an IoT platform, the chal-
lenges of building an IoT application are significant: devel-
oping the application logic user interface and database, and
developing data analytics. However, IoT platform providers
leverage the underlying technologies and assets they have,
while taking into consideration their business models and
customers. Understanding what each provider offers is
required when evaluating IoT platforms because selection
of the underlying platform can be a critical decision for an
IoT-based service developer. In general, switching platforms
can be messy, expensive, time-consuming, and painful.
One of the issues for the IoT community has been
the proliferation of architectures and communication pro-
tocols. However, standardization bodies such as the IEEE
Standards Association [89], [90], the Internet Protocol for
Smart Objects Alliance [91], the Industrial Internet Con-
sortium [92], and the Open Interconnect Consortium [93]
are working on common architectures and communication
protocols.
D. ENERGY HARVESTING
Despite their potential, the reliability of IoT assets is often
impeded by limited energy supply if these devices are
deployed in energy-scarce locations or where no human
intervention is possible. Accordingly, to address such energy
constraints, re-generating power for IoT assets (also known as
energy harvesting) is required. Energy harvesting is defined
as the process of scavenging or hunting energy from the envi-
ronment, such as solar, wind, or vibration, so that the device
can be powered without an additional power source [94].
Considerable research is currently being directed to
low-power or energy-harvesting support for sensors and
associated connectivity systems [95].
E. NEW BUSINESS MODELS FOR IoT-BASED PHM
The combination of IoT and PHM will need new business
models to support its effective implementation. There are a
number of dimensions to consider, including:
• Speed of decision making: The opportunity to collect
appropriate real-time data on asset health allows for a
faster response to changing asset conditions. However,
internal business processes for faster and more risk-
based decisions are necessary. Currently, prognostics
decisions are still largely made by experienced engi-
neers who then need to pass on alerts and recommen-
dations through a chain of command. This slows down
the response time. In addition, the current structure of
performance measures for maintenance organizations is
based around metrics such as % schedule compliance
3666 VOLUME 4, 2016
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
and % planned maintenance. Adherence to target values
for these metrics means that ‘‘schedule breakers’’ such
as actions coming from PHM that need rapid response
will not be welcomed by the managers who are account-
able for meeting target values for these performance
measures.
• Trust and accountability: At present, for most orga-
nizations analysis of health data is done either inter-
nally or by trusted consultants. In the new paradigm,
analysis will be done by models sitting in the cloud,
and recommendations will be based on these models
and reviewed by analysts sitting in remote operations
centers. There are all sorts of questions about who has
the authority in this process and how to build trust
between the local asset operator and the remote analysts,
who may know little about the actual asset or opera-
tion. These analysts may be employed by the company,
the original equipment manufacturer (OEM), or even a
third party.
• Liability: With so many groups involved in the process
described in Fig. 4, how is liability determined in the
event of a major asset failure? To support this evolving
paradigm, a new style of risk- and performance-based
contracts will be needed to support the tighter coupling
between the multiple parties involved.
• Workforce competency: The process of IoT-based PHM
described here will require a suite of new skills for which
the current workforce is not necessarily ready. Many
workers currently involved in traditional CBM roles will
no longer be needed. Data will be collected by sensors
rather than by data collectors, analysis will be done by
models rather than by people, and decisions will be
made by analysts with specialist modelling and engi-
neering skills. These analysts may well work for third
parties, making the current on-site workforce redundant.
Supporting changes to incorporate new PHM-based IoT
skill sets for both employees and third-party providers
may require a significant change in current organiza-
tional structures [78].
F. LICENSING AND ENTITLEMENT MANAGEMENT
Licensing and entitlement management technology pro-
vides the locking capabilities that enable manufacturers to
protect the embedded software intellectual property (IP)
running on connected intelligent devices. Manufacturers
faced with increasing global competitive pressure to reduce
manufacturing costs can leverage the value created with
Internet-connected products to increase revenue. However,
manufacturers need to protect the IP contained in their
applications and monetize it. This can be achieved through
licensing and entitlement platforms that control access to the
Internet-connected device, its functions, and features. These
licensing and entitlement platforms will enable features such
as dynamic pricing, bespoke bundling of features, and near-
real-time software upgrades. These features should help man-
ufacturers be more competitive by increasing the speed to
market for new products, new feature combinations, and
product enhancements.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS
This paper introduced the opportunities and challenges of
IoT-based PHM for industrial applications. While this paper
presented many examples of companies successfully imple-
menting IoT-based PHM, a major impediment is still the
human capital to develop, validate, and maintain the models
necessary for prognostics. Thesemodels require the engineer-
ing, statistics, and machine learning communities to work
together. PHM requires the ability to link the anomalous
patterns in the data to the failure modes and make connec-
tions to the underlying physics of failure (e.g. the failure
mechanisms). One of the challenges with big data is that
given enough data, one will always be able to find rela-
tionships, also called ‘‘spurious correlations’’ [96]. In PHM,
only some of those relationships will make engineering
sense.
To accelerate IoT-based PHM development, datasets on
real asset failures need to be available. These datasets will
enable the development of new algorithms and the validation
of existing algorithms for specific applications. Condition-
monitoring data alone is often not sufficient for PHM;
metadata about the asset, its operating environment, and the
external covariates that influence its deterioration would also
be required. Of particular importance is the collection of
failure modes and mechanisms for failure events. This data
has usually been stored in separate systems to the sensor data.
The advent of IoT enables these datasets to be merged and
made available for analysis. Recent moves to develop a global
prognostics data library will assist in making fit-for-purpose
datasets more widely available [97].
A common feature of IoT platforms is a focus on open
architecture. These open access platforms enable develop-
ment of applications by third parties. This transition to open
access is a paradigm shift for many businesses that have pre-
viously relied on proprietary products for competitive advan-
tage. A number of international businesses and government
groups are also now experimenting with open competitions
using the platforms Kaggle and Hackathons to make datasets
available for predictive analytics [98].
Although there are challenges to the implementation of
IoT-based PHM, most of the issues are not insurmountable.
Sensors are becoming small enough that they do not inter-
fere with the product functions and have connectivity with
lower power consumption. To process the data, hardware
and software support using advanced statistical and machine
learning methods is improving. Cloud computing capacity
and speed have also increased significantly to meet the needs.
Perhaps the biggest concern is with respect to the security of
data [99].
The key conclusion is that IoT-based PHM is expected to
have significant influence on the implementation of reliability
assessment, prediction, and risk mitigation, and create new
business opportunities.
VOLUME 4, 2016 3667
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
REFERENCES
[1] K. C. Kapur and M. Pecht, Reliability Engineering. Hoboken, NJ, USA:
Wiley, 2014.
[2] M. G. Pecht, Prognostics and Health Management of Electronics.
Hoboken, NJ, USA: Wiley, 2008.
[3] Asset Management—Overview, Principles and Terminology, Standard ISO
55000, 2014.
[4] L. Winig, ‘‘GE’s big bet on data and analytics,’’ in Proc. MIT Sloan
Manage. Rev., vol. 57. 2016, pp. 1–16.
[5] R. Minerva, A. Biru, and D. Rotondi. (2015). Towards a
Definition of the Internet of Things (IoT). [Online]. Available: http:
//iot.ieee.org/images/files/pdf/IEEE_IoT_Towards_Definition_Internet_of
_Things_Revision1_27MAY15.pdf
[6] IEEE. (2014). Special Report: The Internet of Things. [Online]. Available:
http://theinstitute.ieee.org/static/special-report-the-internet-of-things
[7] M. Alam, R. H. Nielsen, and N. R. Prasad, ‘‘The evolution of M2M into
IoT,’’ in Proc. 1st Int. Black Sea Conf. Commun. Netw. (BlackSeaCom),
2013, pp. 112–115.
[8] J. Gubbi, R. Buyya, S. Marusic, and M. Palaniswami, ‘‘Internet of Things
(IoT): A vision, architectural elements, and future directions,’’ Future
Generat. Comput. Syst., vol. 29, pp. 1645–1660, Sep. 2013.
[9] Gartner. (2015). Gartner Says 6.4 Billion Connected ‘Things’
Will Be in Use in 2016. [Online]. Available: http://www.gartner.
com/newsroom/id/3165317
[10] (May 2, 2015). GM Prognostics Use 4G for Data Acquisition, Cloud
Analysis. [Online]. Available: http://articles.sae.org/14101/
[11] G. A. Susto, A. Beghi, and C. De Luca, ‘‘A predictive maintenance system
for epitaxy processes based on filtering and prediction techniques,’’ IEEE
Trans. Semicond. Manuf., vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 638–649, Nov. 2012.
[12] Y. G. Li and P. Nilkitsaranont, ‘‘Gas turbine performance prognostic for
condition-based maintenance,’’ Appl. Energy, vol. 86, pp. 2152–2161,
Oct. 2009.
[13] J. Lee, F. Wu, W. Zhao, M. Ghaffari, L. Liao, and D. Siegel, ‘‘Prognostics
and health management design for rotary machinery systems—Reviews,
methodology and applications,’’ Mech. Syst. Signal Process., vol. 42,
pp. 314–334, Jan. 2014.
[14] D. A. Tobon-Mejia, K. Medjaher, N. Zerhouni, and G. Tripot, ‘‘A data-
driven failure prognostics method based on mixture of Gaussians hidden
Markov models,’’ IEEE Trans. Rel., vol. 61, no. 2, pp. 491–503, Jun. 2012.
[15] S. Yamijala, S. D. Guikema, and K. Brumbelow, ‘‘Statistical models for
the analysis of water distribution system pipe break data,’’ Rel. Eng. Syst.
Safety, vol. 94, pp. 282–293, Feb. 2009.
[16] D. Galar et al., ‘‘Hybrid models for PHM deployment techniques in
railway,’’ in Proc. 10th Int. Conf. Condition Monitoring Mach. Failure
Prevention Technol., 2013, pp. 1047–1056.
[17] N. Montgomery, D. Banjevic, and A. K. S. Jardine, ‘‘Minor maintenance
actions and their impact on diagnostic and prognostic CBM models,’’
J. Intell. Manuf., vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 303–311, 2012.
[18] A. K. S. Jardine, D. Lin, and D. Banjevic, ‘‘A review on machinery
diagnostics and prognostics implementing condition-based maintenance,’’
Mech. Syst. Signal Process., vol. 20, pp. 1483–1510, Oct. 2006.
[19] J. Gu and M. Pecht, ‘‘Prognostics and health management using physics-
of-failure,’’ in Proc. Annu. Rel. Maintainab. Symp., 2008, pp. 481–487.
[20] D. Rizopoulos, Joint Models for Longitudinal and Time-to-Event Data:
With Applications in R. Boca Raton, FL, USA: CRC Press, 2012.
[21] X.-S. Si, W. Wang, C.-H. Hu, and D.-H. Zhou, ‘‘Remaining useful life
estimation—A review on the statistical data driven approaches,’’ Eur. J.
Oper. Res., vol. 213, pp. 1–14, Aug. 2011.
[22] A. K. S. Jardine, P. M. Anderson, and D. S. Mann, ‘‘Application of the
weibull proportional hazards model to aircraft and marine engine failure
data,’’ Quality Rel. Eng. Int., vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 77–82, 1987.
[23] A. Ghasemi and M. R. Hodkiewicz, ‘‘Estimating mean residual life for
a case study of rail wagon bearings,’’ IEEE Trans. Rel., vol. 61, no. 3,
pp. 719–730, Sep. 2012.
[24] P. J. Vlok, J. L. Coetzee, D. Banjevic, A. K. S. Jardine, and V. Makis,
‘‘Optimal component replacement decisions using vibration monitoring
and the proportional-hazards model,’’ J. Oper. Res. Soc., vol. 53, no. 2,
pp. 193–202, 2002.
[25] D. Lin, D. Banjevic, and A. K. S. Jardine, ‘‘Using principal compo-
nents in a proportional hazards model with applications in condition-
based maintenance,’’ J. Oper. Res. Soc., vol. 57, no. 8, pp. 910–919,
2006.
[26] A. Heng, A. C. C. Tan, J. Mathew, N. Montgomery, D. Banjevic, and
A. K. S. Jardine, ‘‘Intelligent condition-based prediction of machinery
reliability,’’ Mech. Syst. Signal Process., vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 1600–1614,
2009.
[27] Z. Tian, L. Wong, and N. Safaei, ‘‘A neural network approach for remain-
ing useful life prediction utilizing both failure and suspension histories,’’
Mech. Syst. Signal Process., vol. 24, pp. 1542–1555, Jul. 2010.
[28] D. Tobon-Mejia, K. Medjaher, and N. Zerhouni, ‘‘CNC machine tool’s
wear diagnostic and prognostic by using dynamic Bayesian networks,’’
Mech. Syst. Signal Process., vol. 28, pp. 167–182, Apr. 2012.
[29] O. F. Eker, F. Camci, A. Guclu, H. Yilboga, M. Sevkli, and S. Baskan,
‘‘A simple state-based prognostic model for railway turnout systems,’’
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 58, no. 5, pp. 1718–1726, May 2011.
[30] J. Z. Sikorska, M. Hodkiewicz, and L. Ma, ‘‘Prognostic modelling options
for remaining useful life estimation by industry,’’ Mech. Syst. Signal
Process., vol. 25, pp. 1803–1836, Jul. 2011.
[31] M. Pecht, T. Shibutani, M. Kang, M. Hodkiewicz, and E. Cripps,
‘‘A fusion prognostics-based qualification test methodology for microelec-
tronic products,’’ Microelectron. Rel., to be published.
[32] J. Fan, C. Qian, X. Fan, G. Zhang, and M. Pecht, ‘‘In-situ monitoring
and anomaly detection for LED packages using a Mahalanobis distance
approach,’’ presented at the 1st Int. Conf. Rel. Syst. Eng. (ICRSE), Beijing,
China, 2015, pp. 1–6.
[33] S. Kumar, N. M. Vichare, E. Dolev, and M. Pecht, ‘‘A health indicator
method for degradation detection of electronic products,’’ Microelectron.
Rel., vol. 52, pp. 439–445, Feb. 2012.
[34] S. Cheng and M. Pecht, ‘‘Using cross-validation for model parameter
selection of sequential probability ratio test,’’ Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 39,
pp. 8467–8473, Jul. 2012.
[35] Q. Jiang, X. Yan, and W. Zhao, ‘‘Fault detection and diagnosis in chemical
processes using sensitive principal component analysis,’’ Ind. Eng. Chem.
Res., vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 1635–1644, 2013.
[36] J. Qu, ‘‘Support-vector-machine-based diagnostics and prognostics for
rotating systems,’’ Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. Mech. Eng., Univ. Alberta,
Edmonton, AB, Canada, 2011.
[37] M. E. Tipping, ‘‘Sparse Bayesian learning and the relevance vector
machine,’’ J. Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 1, pp. 211–244, Jun. 2001.
[38] W. Wang and M. Carr, ‘‘A stochastic filtering based data driven approach
for residual life prediction and condition based maintenance decision
making support,’’ presented at the Prognostics Syst. HealthManage. Conf.,
2010, pp. 1–10.
[39] P. Baraldi, F. Mangili, and E. Zio, ‘‘A Kalman filter-based ensemble
approach with application to turbine creep prognostics,’’ IEEE Trans. Rel.,
vol. 61, no. 4, pp. 966–977, Dec. 2012.
[40] J. Fan, K.-C. Yung, and M. Pecht, ‘‘Predicting long-term lumen mainte-
nance life of LED light sources using a particle filter-based prognostic
approach,’’ Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 42, pp. 2411–2420, Apr. 2015.
[41] S. Cheng andM. Pecht, ‘‘A fusion prognostics method for remaining useful
life prediction of electronic products,’’ presented at the IEEE Int. Conf.
Autom. Sci. Eng. (CASE), Aug. 2009, pp. 102–107.
[42] J. Liu, W. Wang, F. Ma, Y. B. Yang, and C. S. Yang, ‘‘A data-model-fusion
prognostic framework for dynamic system state forecasting,’’ Eng. Appl.
Artif. Intell., vol. 25, pp. 814–823, Jun. 2012.
[43] J. Xu and L. Xu, ‘‘Health management based on fusion prognostics for
avionics systems,’’ J. Syst. Eng. Electron., vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 428–436,
Jun. 2011.
[44] A. S. S. Vasan and M. Pecht, ‘‘Investigation of stochastic differential mod-
els and a recursive nonlinear filtering approach for fusion-prognostics,’’
presented at the Proc. Annu. Conf. Prognostics HealthManage. Soc., 2011,
pp. 1–3.
[45] M. Chookah, M. Nuhi, and M. Modarres, ‘‘A probabilistic physics-of-
failuremodel for prognostic healthmanagement of structures subject to pit-
ting and corrosion-fatigue,’’ Rel. Eng. Syst. Safety, vol. 96, pp. 1601–1610,
Dec. 2011.
[46] M. E. Porter and J. E. Heppelmann, ‘‘How smart, connected products
are transforming companies,’’ Harvard Bus. Rev., vol. 93, pp. 97–114,
Oct. 2015.
[47] M. W. Van Alstyne, G. G. Parker, and S. P. Choudary, ‘‘Pipelines, plat-
forms, and the new rules of strategy,’’ in Proc. Harvard Bus. Rev., 2016,
pp. 54–62.
[48] R. Drath and A. Horch, ‘‘Industrie 4.0: Hit or hype? [industry forum],’’
IEEE Ind. Electron. Mag., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 56–58, Jun. 2014.
3668 VOLUME 4, 2016
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
[49] J. Lee, B. Bagheri, and H.-A. Kao, ‘‘A cyber-physical systems architec-
ture for industry 4.0-based manufacturing systems,’’ Manuf. Lett., vol. 3,
pp. 18–23, Jan. 2015.
[50] (2011). EC: Totally Integrated Automation Portal (TIA Portal)
Automation Software: Control Engineering. [Online]. Available: http:
//www.controleng.com/single-article/ec-totally-integrated-automation-
portal-tia-portal-automation-software
[51] J. Bruner, Industrial Internet: The Machines are Talking. Sebastopol, CA,
USA: O’Reilly Media, Inc., 2013.
[52] F. Färber et al., ‘‘The SAP HANA database—An architecture overview,’’
IEEE Data Eng. Bull., vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 28–33, Apr. 2012.
[53] NEC. (May 25, 2016). NEC Helps Toshiba Machine Enhance Trouble-
Free Operations by Detecting Malfunctions of Machines Before They
Occur. [Online]. Available: http://www.nec.com/en/case/toshiba-
machine/index.html
[54] NIDEC. (Jun. 10, 2016). Nidec and IBM Japan to Jointly Develop
IoT Technology. [Online]. Available: http://www.nidec.com/en-
NA/product/news/2015/news0622-01/
[55] Accenture. (Apr. 28, 2015). Hyundai Heavy Industries and Accenture
to Build Connected Smart Ships. [Online]. Available: https://newsroom.
accenture.com/news/hyundai-heavy-industries-and-accenture-to-build-
connected-smart-ships.htm
[56] R. Berger. (2011). Growth Strategies in the Global Construction Equip-
ment Market–Capturing Growth Markets in BRIC and Beyond. [Online].
Available: https://www.rolandberger.com/media/pdf/Roland_Berger_
Construction_equipment_market_20111007.pdf
[57] Komatsu. (Apr. 28, 2015). How KOMTRAX Works. [Online]. Available:
http://www.komatsu.com/CompanyInfo/profile/product_supports/
[58] GE-Power. (Apr. 28, 2016).RemoteMonitoring and Diagnostics. [Online].
Available: https://powergen.gepower.com/content/dam/gepower-pgdp/
global/en_US/documents/service/gas%20turbine%20services/monitoring-
diagnostics-fact-sheet.pdf
[59] N. Waters, ‘‘Engine health management,’’ in Proc. Ingenia, 2009,
pp. 37–42.
[60] Key World Energy Statistics, Int. Energy Agency, Paris, France, Nov. 2015.
[61] D. S. Markovic, D. Zivkovic, I. Branovic, R. Popovic, and D. Cvetkovic,
‘‘Smart power grid and cloud computing,’’ Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.,
vol. 24, pp. 566–577, Aug. 2013.
[62] W. Zhixin, J. Chuanwen, A. Qian, andW. Chengmin, ‘‘The key technology
of offshore wind farm and its new development in China,’’ Renew. Sustain.
Energy Rev., vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 216–222, Jan. 2009.
[63] G. Cros, ‘‘Industry trends maintenance cost,’’ presented at the IATA 3rd
Airline Cost Conf., Geneva, Switzerland, Aug. 2015.
[64] Z. Williams, ‘‘Benefits of IVHM: An analytical approach,’’ presented at
the IEEE Aerosp. Conf., Big Sky, MT, USA, Mar. 2006.
[65] D. E. Paris, L. C. Trevino, andM. D.Watson, ‘‘A framework for integration
of IVHM technologies for intelligent integration for vehicle management,’’
presented at the IEEE Aerosp. Conf., Big Sky, MT, USA, Mar. 2005,
pp. 3843–3852.
[66] J. Eriksson, L. Girod, B. Hull, R. Newton, S.Madden, andH. Balakrishnan,
‘‘The pothole patrol: Using a mobile sensor network for road surface
monitoring,’’ presented at the 6th Annu. Int. Conf. Mobile Syst., Appl.
Services (MobiSys), Breckenridge, CO, USA, 2008.
[67] H. Schaffers, N. Komninos, M. Pallot, B. Trousse, M. Nilsson, and
A. Oliveira, ‘‘Smart cities and the future Internet: Towards cooperation
frameworks for open innovation,’’ in Lecture Note in Computer Science,
vol. 6656. 2011, pp. 431–446.
[68] J. M. Hernández-Muñoz et al., ‘‘Smart cities at the forefront of the future
Internet,’’ in Lecture Note in Computer Science, vol. 6656. 2011, pp. 431-
446.
[69] L. D. Burns, ‘‘Sustainable mobility: A vision of our transport future,’’
Nature, vol. 497, pp. 181–182, May 2013.
[70] A. J. J. Valera, M. A. Zamora, and A. F. G. Skarmeta, ‘‘An architecture
based on Internet of Things to support mobility and security in medi-
cal environments,’’ presented at the 7th IEEE Consum. Commun. Netw.
Conf. (CCNC), Las Vegas, NV, USA, Jan. 2010, pp. 1–5.
[71] A. Dohr, R. Modre-Opsrian, M. Drobics, D. Hayn, and G. Schreier, ‘‘The
Internet of Things for ambient assisted living,’’ presented at the 7th Int.
Conf. Inf. Technol., New Generat., Las Vegas, NV, USA, Apr. 2010,
pp. 804–809.
[72] Y. Ning, P. Sandborn, and M. Pecht, ‘‘Prognostics-based product war-
ranties,’’ in Proc. IEEE Conf. Prognostics Health Manage. (PHM),
Jun. 2013, pp. 1–8.
[73] (2015). EU-SPARC—The Partnership for Robotics in Europe. [Online].
Available: http://sparc-robotics.eu/
[74] (2015). New Robot Strategy—Japan’s Robot Strategy—Vision, Strat-
egy, Action Plan. [Online]. Available: http://www.meti.go.jp/english/
press/2015/pdf/0123_01b.pdf
[75] (2016). Manufacturing Automation Leaders Collaborate: Optimizing
Industrial Production Through Analytics. [Online]. Available: http://www.
fanucamerica.com/cmsmedia/PR/FANUC-FIELD-Announcement_79.pdf
[76] A. McAfee and E. Brynjolfsson, ‘‘Big data: The management revolution,’’
Harvard Bus. Rev., vol. 90, no. 10, pp. 61–68, 2012.
[77] T. H. Davenport and D. J. Patil, ‘‘Data scientist: The sexiest job of the
21st century,’’ Harvard Bus. Rev., vol. 90, no. 10, pp. 70–76, 2012.
[78] D. Barton and D. Court, ‘‘Advanced analytics work for you,’’Harvard Bus.
Rev., vol. 90, no. 10, pp. 79–83, 2012.
[79] S. Boyd, N. Parikh, E. Chu, B. Peleato, and J. Eckstein, ‘‘Distributed
optimization and statistical learning via the alternating direction method of
multipliers,’’ Found. Trends Mach. Learn., vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 1–122, 2011.
[80] T. N. Sainath, A.-R. Mohamed, B. Kingsbury, and B. Ramabhadran,
‘‘Deep convolutional neural networks for LVCSR,’’ presented at the 2013
IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process., Vancouver, BC, Canada,
May 2013, pp. 8614–8618.
[81] S. K. Kim, P. L. McMahon, and K. Olukotun, ‘‘A large-scale architecture
for restricted Boltzmann machines,’’ in Proc. 18th IEEE Annu. Int. Symp.
Field-Program. Custom Comput. Mach. (FCCM), May 2010, pp. 201–208.
[82] J. Zheng, F. Shen, H. Fan, and J. Zhao, ‘‘An online incremental learn-
ing support vector machine for large-scale data,’’ Neural Comput. Appl.,
vol. 22, no. 5, pp. 1023–1035, Apr. 2013.
[83] C.-Y. Lin, C.-H. Tsai, C.-P. Lee, and C.-J. Lin, ‘‘Large-scale logistic
regression and linear support vector machines using spark,’’ in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Big Data (Big Data), Oct. 2014, pp. 519–528.
[84] L. Deng and D. Yu, ‘‘Deep learning: Methods and applications,’’ Found.
Trends Signal Process., vol. 7, nos. 3–4, pp. 197–387, Jun. 2014.
[85] G. S. Babu, P. Zhao, and X.-L. Li, ‘‘Deep convolutional neural network
based regression approach for estimation of remaining useful life,’’ in
Lecture Note in Computer Science, vol. 9642. 2016, pp. 214–228.
[86] F. Jia, Y. Lei, J. Lin, X. Zhou, and N. Lu, ‘‘Deep neural networks:
A promising tool for fault characteristic mining and intelligent diagnosis
of rotating machinery with massive data,’’ Mech. Syst. Signal Process.,
vol. 72, pp. 303–315, May 2016.
[87] P. Tamilselvan and P. Wang, ‘‘Failure diagnosis using deep belief learn-
ing based health state classification,’’ Rel. Eng. Syst. Safety, vol. 115,
pp. 124–135, Jul. 2013.
[88] S. Cheng, M. H. Azarian, and M. Pecht, ‘‘Sensor systems for prognostics
and health management,’’ Sensors, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 5774–5797, 2010.
[89] (2015). IEEE-SA Internet of Things (IoT) Ecosystem Study. [Online].
Available: http://standards.ieee.org/innovate/iot/study.html
[90] Standard for an Architectural Framework for the Internet of Things (IoT),
IEEE Standard P2413, May 2016.
[91] S. Torhorst, N. Hölzel, and V. Gollnick, ‘‘Identification and evaluation
of the potentials of prognostics and health management in future civil
aircraft,’’ in Proc. Eur. Conf. Prognostics Health Manage. Soc., Nantes,
France, 2014, pp. 1–5.
[92] L. J. Bond, P. Ramuhalli, M. S. Tawfik, and N. J. Lybeck, ‘‘Prognostics and
life beyond 60 years for nuclear power plants,’’ in Proc. IEEE Prognostics
Health Manage. (PHM), Montreal, QC, Canada, Jun. 2011, pp. 1–7.
[93] (May 14, 2016). Industrial Internet: The Power of 1%. [Online]. Available:
https://www.ge.com/digital/blog/industrial-internet-visual-journey
[94] M. Gorlatova, J. Sarik, G. Grebla, M. Cong, I. Kymissis, and
G. Zussman, ‘‘Movers and shakers: Kinetic energy harvesting for the
Internet of Things,’’ IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 33, no. 8,
pp. 1624–1639, Aug. 2015.
[95] O. Vermesan et al., ‘‘Internet of things strategic research roadmap,’’ in
Proc. Internet Things-Global Technol. Soc. Trends, 2011, pp. 9–52.
[96] D. Bollier and C. M. Firestone, The Promise and Peril of Big Data.
Washington, DC, USA: Aspen Institute, Communications and Society
Program, 2010.
[97] J. Sikorska, M. R. Hodkiewicz, A. De Cruz, L. Astfalck, and A. Keating,
‘‘A collaborative data library for testing prognostic models,’’ presented at
the 3rd Eur. Conf. Prognostics Health Manage. Soc., Bilbao, Spain, 2016.
[98] K. J. Boudreau and K. R. Lakhani, ‘‘Using the crowd as an innovation
partner,’’ Harvard Bus. Rev., vol. 91, no. 4, pp. 60–69, 2013.
[99] M. J. Covington and R. Carskadden, ‘‘Threat implications of the Internet
of Things,’’ in Proc. 5th Int. Conf. Cyber Conflict (CyCon), Jun. 2013,
pp. 1–12.
VOLUME 4, 2016 3669
D. Kwon et al.: IoT-Based PHM for Industrial Applications
DAEIL KWON (M’07) received the bache-
lor’s degree in mechanical engineering from
POSTECH, South Korea, and the Ph.D. degree
in mechanical engineering from the University
of Maryland, College Park, USA. He joined the
Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technol-
ogy (UNIST), he was a senior reliability engineer
at Intel Corporation, Chandler, AZ, USA, where he
developed use condition-based reliability models
and methodologies for assessing package and sys-
tem reliability performance. He is currently an Assistant Professor of Human
and System Engineering, UNIST, Ulsan, South Korea. His research interests
are focused on prognostics and health management of electronics, reliability
modeling, and use condition characterization.
MELINDA R. HODKIEWICZ received the
B.A. degree (Hons.) in metallurgy and science of
materials from Oxford University in 1985, and the
Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering from The
University of Western Australia in 2004. He is
currently the BHP Billiton Fellow for Engineering
for Remote Operations with The University of
Western Australia (UWA). She was with industry
in operations and maintenance roles. She currently
leads the System Health Laboratory, UWA, where
he is involved in the areas of asset health, maintenance and safety. From
2012 to 2015, she was a member of the PC251 ISO55000 Asset Management
Standard Committee. She is also a Chartered Engineer (U.K.), a member of
the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3), the IEEE and the
Asset Management Council.
JIAJIE FAN (S’12–M’14) received the B.S. degree
in inorganic materials science and engineer-
ing from the Nanjing University of Technology,
Nanjing, China, in 2006, the M.S. degree in mate-
rial science and engineering from the East China
University of Science and Technology, Shanghai,
China, in 2009, and the Ph.D. degree in industrial
and systems engineering from The Hong Kong
Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, in 2014. He is
currently an Assistant Professor with the College
of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Hohai University, Changzhou,
China. He is also a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow with the Delft University
of Technology (Beijing Research Centre), The Netherlands. He is registered
in certified Six SigmaGreen Belt in HongKong Society for Quality. Hismain
research interests include lifetime estimation for LEDs, failure diagnosis and
prognosis for electric devices and system, prognostics and health manage-
ment for LED lightings, and advanced electronic packaging and assembly.
TADAHIRO SHIBUTANI received the
Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering from
Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan, in 2000. He was
a Visiting Scholar with the Center of Advanced
Life Cycle Engineering, University of Maryland,
in 2007. He is currently Associate Professor
of Center for Creation of Symbiosis Society
with Risk with Yokohama National University,
Yokohama, Japan. His research interests include
physics of failure, health monitoring, and risk
management for engineering systems.
MICHAEL G. PECHT (M’83–SM’90–F’92)
received the B.S. degree in physics, the
M.S. degree in electrical engineering, and theM.S.
and Ph.D. degree in engineering mechanics from
the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He is
a World-Renowned Expert in strategic planning,
design, test, and risk assessment of information
systems. He is currently a Professional Engineer,
an ASME Fellow, an SAE Fellow, and an IMAPS
Fellow. He is the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE
Access. He served as a Chief Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Reliability
for nine years, and as a Chief Editor of the Microelectronics Reliability for
16 years. He has also served on three NAS studies, two U.S. Congressional
investigations in automotive safety, and as an Expert for the FDA. He is
the Founder and the Director of the Center for Advanced Life Cycle
Engineering (CALCE) with the University of Maryland, which is funded
by over 150 of the world’s leading electronics companies at more than US
6M/year. He received the NSF Innovation Award in 2009 and the National
Defense Industries Association Award. He is currently a Chair Professor
in mechanical engineering and a Professor in applied mathematics with
the University of Maryland. In 2015, he received the IEEE Components,
Packaging, and Manufacturing Award for visionary leadership in the devel-
opment of physics-of-failure-based and prognostics-based approaches to
electronic packaging reliability. He received the Distinguished Chinese
Academy of Sciences President’s International Fellowship. In 2013, he
received the University of Wisconsin-Madison’s College of Engineering
Distinguished Achievement Award. In 2011, he received the University of
Maryland’s Innovation Award for his new concepts in risk management.
In 2010, he received the IEEEExceptional Technical Achievement Award for
his innovations in the area of prognostics and systems health management.
In 2008, he was awarded the highest reliability honor, the IEEE Reliability
Society’s Lifetime Achievement Award.
3670 VOLUME 4, 2016

